USSA - A Journey Towards SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION

Udra Society for secondary Agriculture (USSA) in a spirit of openness and sensitivity thresholded its footprint, believing in the ethos that nothing is written in the stone and thus its intervensions have extended to the cause of making a more enabled and empowered society through putting the best effort. Through its primary concern are seen as promoting and establishing spaces for secondary agriculture in the tribal pockets of Odisha from its very name but it has widened its outreach, phased out from agriculture to health and education, responding that along with agriculture, community often needs more than a mere livelihood to enlist them as empowered one.


Core values.
1. Social equity and distributive justice
2. Non-alignment
3. Transparency and accountability
4. Innovative and responsive development initiatives

Since its very inception, USSA has been a frontrunner in carrying out proactive and promotional role to focus on priorities, issues, opportunities and problems in various fields of social development like secondary agriculture, integration of mental & physical disability education, health and livelihood etc. USSA is committed to work in tune with the following principles;

1. To create effective environment in the life perspectives of the perople
2. To Address the needs of the unprivileged ethnic minority groups, tribals and other socially included communities and general population
3. Aims to provide lasting solutions and in-depth changes in community lavel 
4. to Bring about a multiplier effects

Vision
A socio-economically empowered Society with social inclusion.

Mission:
To initiate and strengthen community lives by ensuring their educaion, livelihood, health and other neccessities through a sustained and committed development intervention.


Genesis:
USSA was germinated after a group of communited and like-minded individuals thorugh an turn ahead to work for the undersurved communities who are really denied of development opportunities, rights and priorities in both the public and social phenomenon. To augment social mainsreaming through social inclusion and social economic empowerment they stood to work together thus the journey of USSA started for the wellbeingness of those people.


thrust areas of intervention
1). Training and Capacity Building
	USSA recognizes that cutting edge to development heavily depends upon increased human potensials and thus regular, spacific and needbased training and capacity building activities are offered to various stakeholders to update them with professional work approch and to create and strengthen their skills to accelerate development action. Capacity building in terms of trainings, orientations, and workshops is imparted through its specialized and expertised professionals on various subjects like area based livelihood options, secondary agriculture, integration of physically and mentally disabled persons, health and education. USSA has grinded its effort in preparing tools and techniques through coming out with opposite training modules and materials ti equip traineed at different levels.

2). Health
	USSA intervenes in health prioritisely for the undernourished of the uncovered and hard tp reach areas where no other option/services are available. It primarily focuses on reproductive and child health , mallaria, anthrax and other prevalent diseases. Its intervention in health includes
1. Organizing health camps
2. Referral assistance in complicacies
3. IEC/BCC on health

3) Education:
	USSA believes that the present educational system falls short as no real inclution is desired in the educational approach. Education without inclusion remains isolation as children and special children are lined separately which contributes to their discrimination and social segregation. USSA promotes inclusive education (education under one roof) integration and new based activity and strives to provide basic education to the children with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation with common and specific approach, which othewise instroduces social mainstreaming from their very childhood.


4) Networking and partnership :
	To increase citizens bigaining power and to respond better to injustice and paucity, USSA emphasizes on networking with other NGOS/CBOS, community oragnisations to come together to fight against community issues those invite immediate intervensions.


5) Livelihood and Agriculture:
	USSA has a deep and comprehensive understanding in promoting livelihoods with the rural poor to root out poverty through and approach that focuses on building and working with existing available local resources which brings together the social behavioral with the technical and managerial magnitude. Livelihood and agriculture related intervensions of USSA include:
1. Forest based livelihood/NTFP Marketing
2. Community based management of natural resource
3. Irrigation and watershed development
4. Secondary agriculture

6) Field based learning, exchange and exposure
	USSA believes that field based leaming and exposure gives impetus to the workers as well as planners to work efficiently and meaningfully. Members of USSA have extensive field experience and exposure visit to various corner of the country as well as to abroad.

Beyond projects:

USSA has been very pro-active in reaching to the hard to reach areas and forwards its efforts for the common welfare of the people. The activities od USSA therefore reflected not only to give a success to its own projects rather it keenly looks into the local problems of the people and participate to solve it. As a matter of its concern, USSA has been intrumental in connecting Electrification to 9 villages namely ; Tulasidiha, Kanthasimulia, Sorishakanda, bayarasahi, Jenadahi, Kamarkhatia, Gudisul, Baliajhar and Tentulapada of Nilagiri block under Balasore district, This apart, USSA has been engaged itself in many other community issues which needs immediate redressal

Organizational Strategies involved
1. Social surveys including resource mapping and gap analysis
2. Identification and prioritization on sustainable livelihood opportunities
3. Sectoral interventions

Technical Advisors..........................

Our Major milestones
1. USSA has conducted a number of health camps in which around 5760 persons are directly benefitted and 	71 persons have been recovered from severe health hazards
2. USSA has been instrumental in augmenting perples voice and it has helped 9 villages to get electified 	under Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Bidyut Yojana which were not included earlier.
3. USSA also has widened its efforts to recover sick farms to initiate and spread the culture of 	agricultural.
4. Various awareness programmers have been organised on rainwater harvesting for agriculture purpose.
5. USSA has visibly made possible to have an impact among the farmers to adopt secondary agriculture and positive feeback has strengthened the work of USSA.
6. USSA has provided counselling to the parents of the children with special needs and also taken care of such children.

Legal Stetus
USSA is registered and certified with following Acts and norms.

1. Registered under Society Act 1860
2. Registered under Income Tax Act

Udra Society for Secondary Agriculture (USSA)
Regd. Office: At/Po-Patana, Via-Mitrapur, Dist-Balasore-756001

Branch Office & Communication address:
41-Diplex, 7 Acres, Chandrasekharpur, Bhubaneswaer-751016
Contact Person: Mrs Jyotirmayee Panigrahi
Mob: 9861070217, 9437631966
E-mail: ussa2008@rediffmail.com/ info@ussaodisha.org
website: www.ussaodisha.org.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uI18xGocVnw



